All Kafka brokers belong to a Kafka cluster.
A cluster consists of one or more Kafka brokers.
Some clusters will contain just one broker while
others may contain three or potentially thousands.
Remember in the first lesson I pointed out that LinkedIn and Netflix and accompanies like
Uber and Apple will run a hundreds or a thousands of Kafka brokers to handle their data.
How do the Kafka brokers and clients keep track of
all the Kafka brokers if they're are more than one?
The Kafka team decided to use a tool called Apache Zookeeper for this purpose.
For this class, it's not important to know much
about zookeeper outside of how Kafka uses it.
Zookeeper is used for a few things in the Kafka world.
First, zookeeper is used to determine which brokers are members of the cluster,
as well as which of those brokers are the leaders of the various topics.
Beyond that Kafka also uses zookeeper to store topics state and user permissions.
User permissions are also known as ACLs.
Kafka's usage as zookeeper means that brokers may typically
gracefully join and leave the cluster as needed.
The flexibility has proven highly attractive so that many companies will use Kafka
in a large and growing data system because it's usage
of zookeeper allows nodes to come and go gracefully from the cluster.